Create a new Swift package named Tinkerble.

Tinkerble is a proof of concept for a debug companion system made of two parts:

An iOS side package developers add to their app.

A macOS companion app developers can run during development to inspect logs and tweak live values inside the iOS app.

The package should depend on the RSocket package for communication between the iOS app and the macOS companion app.

The end goal is a developer experience where an app developer can replace normal SwiftUI state with a tweakable state property wrapper, run both the iOS app and the macOS companion app together, and then edit values live from the Mac app while also viewing logs sent from the iOS app.

Use https://joshpuckett.me/dialkit as inspiration for the tweakable UI concept, but do not copy its API or implementation blindly.

Build the initial version as a focused proof of concept. It should be useful, well documented, and structured so future features can be added cleanly.

Core package goals

Implement the foundation for:

@TinkerbleState, a property wrapper similar to SwiftUI @State

Live communication from the iOS app to the macOS companion app

A macOS companion UI with:

a log console

a tweak inspector panel

A simple logging API, likely named TinkerLog

README setup instructions

A sample plist section

A build/run workflow for launching both the iOS app and the macOS companion app

An AGENTS.md file with guidance for future coding agents

@TinkerbleState

Create a property wrapper named @TinkerbleState.

It should behave as closely as possible to SwiftUI @State, while also registering the wrapped value with Tinkerble so the macOS companion app can display and edit it.

The property wrapper should support use in SwiftUI views and should also be compatible with Swift @Observable.

It does not need to support ObservableObject or @Published for this initial version.

Supported value types for now:

Numbers

Strings

Booleans

Colors

Basic enums which can be represented in a UI

Common numeric Foundation and Swift types where appropriate, such as Int, Double, CGFloat, and TimeInterval

Do not support arrays, structs, dictionaries, nested custom models, or complex types in this version.

Property wrapper API

Design a clear API for @TinkerbleState.

It should support:

A required or inferred display name

An optional category

Optional control configuration

Sensible defaults

Preferred usage should feel lightweight. Examples:

@TinkerbleState("Settings", name: "Spacing")
private var spacing = 12
or, if variable names can be inferred reliably:

@TinkerbleState(category: "Settings")
private var spacing = 12
If Swift cannot reliably expose the variable name for use in the macOS UI, require an explicit name.

The category should always be optional.

Values with no category should appear at the top of the tweak inspector before categorized groups.

Categorized values should be grouped under their category name.

Numeric controls

Numeric tweakable values should support different control styles.

At minimum, support:

Stepper

Slider

Example API:

@TinkerbleState(
    name: "Opacity",
    control: .slider(0...1, decimalPlaces: 2)
)
private var opacity = 0.5
or:

@TinkerbleState(
    category: "Layout",
    name: "Width",
    control: .slider(5...400)
)
private var width = 120
The slider control should accept a range.

decimalPlaces should be optional and should have a smart default:

A 0...1 range should default to 2 decimal places.

A larger integer-like range, such as 0...100, should default to 0 decimal places.

Integer values should not allow decimal places.

Decimal places should only be available for decimal-capable types such as Double, Float, CGFloat, TimeInterval, and similar types.

Invalid combinations should fail at compile time where reasonably possible.

For example:

A decimal configuration should not compile for Int.

Numeric controls should not compile for non-numeric values.

A slider range should only be available for numeric values.

Supported macOS controls

The macOS companion app should automatically build a tweak UI from registered @TinkerbleState values.

Use a simple inspector layout. A basic VStack grouped by category is enough for the first version.

Render each supported value type as follows:

String: text field

Bool: toggle

Color: color picker

Number with .stepper: text field plus stepper

Number with .slider: slider plus value display or editable field

Enum: dropdown or picker with all available cases

For enums, define whatever protocol or constraint is needed so basic enums can expose displayable cases. Favor simple Swift-native constraints such as CaseIterable, RawRepresentable, Hashable, or a small custom protocol if needed.

macOS companion app design

The companion app should use a split layout with two persistent panes:

Left pane: console log view

Right pane: tweak inspector panel

Do not add hide/show behavior for the inspector in this version.

The log pane should show strings sent from the iOS app.

The tweak inspector should show all currently registered tweakable values, grouped by category.

When the user edits a value in the Mac app, the new value should be sent back to the iOS app and update the corresponding @TinkerbleState.

Logging

Create a simple logging API, likely named TinkerLog.

The first version only needs to prove the iOS app can send strings to the macOS companion app.

Example desired usage:

TinkerLog.print("User tapped Save")
or:

TinkerLog.log("Current value: \(value)")
Decide on the cleanest API name and shape.

It can be similar to print or OSLog.

If practical, build on top of OSLog, but do not overcomplicate the proof of concept.

The macOS companion app should display incoming logs in the console pane.

Add future logging ideas to a TODO section rather than implementing them now:

log categories

log levels

grouped logs

typed values

custom text color

filtering

search

timestamps

exporting logs

Communication

Use RSocket for communication between the iOS app and the macOS companion app.

Create the minimum viable connection flow needed for:

iOS app registers tweakable values

macOS app receives and displays tweakable values

macOS app sends changed values back to iOS

iOS app applies changed values

iOS app sends log strings to macOS

macOS app displays log strings

Keep the communication layer modular so it can be replaced or expanded later.

Include basic connection status in the Mac app if it is straightforward, but do not overbuild connection management.

Build and run workflow

Provide a practical development workflow so users can run both:

Their iOS app debug scheme

The Tinkerble macOS companion app

The package should include README instructions for creating an Xcode build scheme, run script, or helper command which launches both.

Think through how device selection should work.

Support or document two modes:

Fixed target mode

The developer can configure a specific simulator or physical device in the script.

Interactive target mode

The script can list available iOS simulators and physical devices, ask the developer which one to run, remember the last selected target, and provide a simple Run or Cancel flow.

The script or CLI workflow should be usable from the command line.

Do not assume every team wants the same device every time.

Document the tradeoffs between baking in a target and asking at launch.

README requirements

Write a detailed README for the package.

The README should include:

What Tinkerble is

What problem it solves

Quick start instructions

How to add the Swift package

How to add the RSocket dependency

Required plist setup

A complete sample plist snippet

How to configure Local Network or Bonjour permissions if needed

How to set up the macOS companion app

How to run the iOS app and companion app together

How to use @TinkerbleState

How to use categories

How to use display names

How to use numeric controls

How to use string, boolean, color, enum, stepper, and slider controls

How to send logs

Current limitations

Future work

Troubleshooting

The plist section should be concrete, not vague. Include sample keys and values with placeholders where needed.

Clearly explain which plist entries belong in the iOS app, which belong in the macOS app, and why.

AGENTS.md

Add an AGENTS.md file for future coding agents.

It should explain:

The purpose of Tinkerble

The package architecture

Important files and folders

How the iOS side communicates with the macOS side

How tweak registration works

How logging works

How to run and validate the project

What should not be changed without care

Known limitations

Future TODOs

Architecture expectations

Keep the package clean and modular.

Suggested areas:

Core tweak model types

Property wrapper implementation

Type erasure for tweakable values

Control configuration types

RSocket transport layer

iOS client side

macOS companion side

Logging API

Example app or sample usage

Build scripts or CLI helpers

Documentation

Use names which feel native to Swift.

Avoid overengineering, but do not leave the proof of concept as a pile of unrelated files.

Validation

After implementation, validate the proof of concept end to end.

At minimum:

Create a sample iOS app or example target using @TinkerbleState.

Add sample tweakable values for:

string

boolean

color

integer stepper

decimal slider

enum picker

Run the iOS app and macOS companion app together.

Confirm the macOS app shows all registered tweakable values.

Confirm categories group values correctly.

Confirm uncategorized values appear at the top.

Confirm editing values in the macOS app updates the iOS app.

Confirm TinkerLog sends strings from iOS to the macOS log console.

Confirm invalid numeric control combinations fail at compile time where possible.

Confirm the README setup steps match the actual implementation.

Add tests where practical.

If some parts cannot be fully tested automatically, create a manual validation checklist in the README.

Current version scope

This first version should not attempt to support:

Arrays

Dictionaries

Arbitrary structs

Complex nested models

ObservableObject

@Published

Advanced logging filters

Custom log colors

Full production-grade device discovery

A polished visual design system

Focus on making the first proof of concept work clearly.

Deliverables

Create or update:

Swift package source files

macOS companion app source

iOS sample usage or example target

RSocket integration

@TinkerbleState

control configuration types

TinkerLog

README

sample plist documentation

build/run script or scheme instructions

AGENTS.md

tests or validation checklist

Stopping condition

Stop once the proof of concept can demonstrate this full loop:

An iOS app uses @TinkerbleState, the macOS companion app discovers and displays those values, the developer edits a value in the Mac app, the iOS app updates live, and the iOS app can send a log string to the Mac app console.
